Let's do a slightly more aggressive one.
Before I use that use effect
that I didn't wanna use to, or
at least alluded to using a use effect to,
okay, so
listen to when the count changes, and
then go ahead and update the DraftCount.
I kind of said before,
a lot of times it's easy to say, yo,
one of these two things has changed, or
they've clicked the Update Count button.
These things could happen, figure it out.
Just because we're focused on TypeScript,
I'm gonna pull in a reducer,
kinda like in a cooking show when
I pull the turkey out of the oven.
I'm gonna pull in one and
that is not necessarily where
the problem in my code is gonna be.
But we'll look at it first,
we'll talk about it, but
watching me write this is probably
not the best use of your time.
I will be pulling in this any, which
is a hint for where I get bitten later.
[LAUGH] Just setting the scene now.
So if we look, we've got this initial
state, which I've given a type,
you might call it counter state.
Just to keep the understanding of code,
we're seeing for the first time a little
bit simpler, and we'll have just a default
object that we'll pass in as well.
The cool part is I don't have to give
state a type if it has a default value,
right?
In any TypeScript function, if something
has a default value, TypeScript's like,
let me guess, if you're saying
that defaults to a number,
it's probably a number.
Now if you wanna say it's a number or a
string, you gotta step back in again, but
as long as you've done the bare minimum,
it will try to help you along the way.
And all this really does is, again,
because of, reducers follow the same rule
as React does writ large, which is
everything's got to be immutable, right?
And so with these we have the count and
the draftCount.
All right, cool.
If increment comes in, increment the count
and then set it to the newCount.
We also wanted to update draftCount
along with that every time.
So we wanna say if that input field should
change along with when I hit the buttons,
decrement, reset, sets them both to zero.
I don't need to explain to
you how a counter works.
We also have one that's
gonna take updateDraftCount.
That's when they change the number
in the input field, right?
That's actually going to be one where
we actually have what we might call
a payload.
One of the things that I'm gonna do is,
and you don't have to do this,
in Redux for instance,
there is one rule for actions,
is that all actions have a type property,
right?
So, It's got to have a type.
It's got to be some kind of,
usually a string, if you like yourself.
After that, in Redux, there are no rules.
useReducer and React,
it has even less rules, as you saw.
I'm just tossing in a number, right?
And it's like, that's cool.
I'm into it.
And so it literally could be anything.
Now a great way to have your
teammates hate you is to just wing it
with all these things.
It's like, the pattern I like, there's
something called flux standard actions.
Redux being an implementation of flux,
we don't have to talk about this.
Which is like basically
having like fourish fields,
two that we really care about, which is
to say, definitely have to have a type.
And then just to make it standard,
having this payload property,
which is everything you need to
know about the thing that happened.
They changed the value
of that input field.
In payload, you would either put the new
value or an object that had the keys and
properties, right?
That's better than,
I wonder what properties.
I wonder what the shape of this action is.
It's just a convention.
You don't have to do it.
I'm going to do it because I do it
right and because I'm teaching, and so
it makes sense to follow some sort of
convention rather than just making stuff
up as I go along.
So we'll have actions in a payload.
And so you'll see, if I go down
into the reducer we'll bring in.
So, should we update the count manually?
Go look at the payload,
which will be the new value, right?
And everything will kind of work as well.
This, obviously, as we all know,
was written before I learned about
event value as number, two hours ago.
So it does do some
coercing of stuff as well.
But let's pull this in cuz this
is not my problematic code.
So there's, other than there's just been
a reducer, which is inherently typed,
really, despite the fact that it
doesn't look like it too much.
So let's go ahead and
let's remove all of my riffing.
And I'm gonna put this all in
the same file just for clarity,
normally you would break
this out into its own file.
But rather than watch me jump
around between six different files,
it's probably easier to
keep it all in one place.
So we've got this reducer, and again,
what I would do and in some of the other
example apps, probably have a bunch of
tests than just passing the number two and
then the accurate action
with a type increment and
then sees the number three comes out,
right?
Then I have one that passes and decrement
and sees that the number one comes out, so
on and so forth.
Super easy tests.
You don't have to use React testing
library to mount the component and
click a bunch of stuff.
You might choose to do that as well, but
it's nice that you don't
have to in this case.
Cool, and so he's angry at me, right?
And that's good.
I just pasted some code in,
TypeScript is upset with me.
Why?
It's expecting an object.
Now, this reducer expects an object
that has a count and a draftCount.
And it's like, yo, you left this old
code in here when this was a zero.
I was like, yes, I did cuz I was talking
to my friends while I was doing this,
right?
And instantly it catches that, so
I don't have to embarrass myself in front
of my friends and
sit here flailing wildly, so that's good.
So now we've got this and we can see
automatically the count and draftCount.
That draftCount is any, and
that was on purpose as I was
setting you up to change stuff.
But again, got bitten by it,
so I'm telling you the story
of how that happened to me.
And then, setCount.
Wow, setCount is now any.
Right now, weirdly, hypothetically, if we
changed this to a number for a moment.
Same type, string.
payload is number, hypothetically.
You'll notice, now,
I can only dispatch the right things.
Do you see how I'm about to get hurt,
[LAUGH] right?
Do you see what's about
to happen to me here?
One any threw away all the type safety
of what came out of my reduce and
what I could dispatch to it.
And as we learned about some of the other
really nice stuff that TypeScript gives
me, when I follow the rules and
use reducer, we're gonna see
how the damage is much worse and
even we're probably thinking of right now.
So we've got that in place,
I've got that any in there.
And so, I was going about my business,
I can go in here,
obviously these are all bogus now.
So what I can do is I can dispatch.
We wanna call this, I was making
a point that it was setCount but
let's actually do the thing now.
Well, dispatch, Could really go for
some autocomplete now.
Well, I'm not gonna get any.
Does anyone remember what the name
of my increment action was?
That seems good, yeah.
Well, let me scroll up and look.
I'm making a point.
[LAUGH] Increment, whoa, you can see
that I'm like, if it's the wizard
behind the cloak, as soon as I don't
have autocomplete working for me,
I have a lot of empathy for every
coding interview we have to do in this.
We don't need a payload on that object,
but I don't really remember.
Also you'll notice that I've once again
made the mistake that I've made a thousand
times, of course,
multiple workshops I'll have,
where I give increment decrement and
decrement increment.
Increment, I could go for
some autocomplete.
Now, that wasn't even for show.
That wasn't even me trying to make the
point, that was literally me not knowing
how to type while talking, despite the
fact that I did it for a living for years.
All right, for count, we needed to do,
we'll still call it state
now since it's two things.
It does know what this is at least.
Well, it knows what a count is.
Cool, we don't need this anymore
since that will exist on state.
Now, it will be in any type.
What was the name of that one?
Cool, and I can say,
I'll show you what I did.
Typed action, And
I typed action cuz I was doing actions and
I was doing types and I was somewhat,
I was just kinda in autopilot setting
this thing up and not really thinking.
Now, I don't need to explain
how conditionals work to
you to explain that if you were
looking for an action type any and
you pass in an object,
that action is updateDraftCount.
It just falls right through
all of these conditionals and
you get back your initial state.
And then you hit a button repeatedly,
and nothing happens, right?
Because you don't even get an error,
the code works.
It's just on a very nuanced
version of what works is.
We could take the event target value,
so on and so forth.
But the point that I wanted to make
is that having won any in there opted
me out of type safety everywhere, right,
effectively on dispatch at least.
Made it so that I had to sit there and
type every action by hand and look up and
remember it, so on and so forth, right?
It's kind of like setting the stage
of how life is now with one any,
one innocuous any,
just unlike literally one value, right,
which is just simply the action,
affected everything.
And I lost, yeah, it was like ten minutes,
but still, you know what?
Enough of those ten minutes, and
you're like, yeah, I can write some types.
So let's kinda look at how we might
make that a little bit better, right,
instead of doubling down and watching
me fall all the way after you've seen
where I got bitten by
a real world mistake.
Let's make this better